wlx-overlay-s/src/gui/README.md, before:

# Custom UI Elements

Elements on custom panels may be modified at runtime using `wayvrctl`.

For more, refer to: `wayvrctl panel-modify --help`

### Labels

#### Clock label

Clock labels are driven by the current time, adhering to the user's 12/24 hour setting as well as timezone settings.

Available display values are: `name` (timezone name), `time`, `date`, `dow`

See the Custom Timezones section for more info on timezones. Skip `_timezone` to use local time.

```xml
<label _source="clock" _display="time" _timezone="0" [...] />
```

#### Battery label

This is a label type that's used internally to display battery states.

```xml
<label _source="battery" _device="0" [...] />
```

#### IPD

Displays IPD value in millimeters. Not parametrizable.

Format: `ipd`

```xml
<label _source="ipd" [...] />
```

### Buttons

Buttons consist of a label component and one or more actions to handle press and/or release events.

Note: As of WlxOverlay 25.10, we no longer support events based on laser color, as this was bad practice accessibility-wise.

Supported events:

```xml
<button _press="..." _release="..." />
```

Laser-color-specific variants are also available
- `_press_left` & `_release_left` for blue laser
- `_press_right` & `_release_right` for orange laser
- `_press_middle` & `_release_middle` for purple laser

Release after short/long press (length controlled by config `long_press_duration`)
- `_short_release` & `_long_release` for any laser
- `_short_release_left` & `_long_release_left` for blue laser
- `_short_release_right` & `_long_release_right` for orange laser
- `_short_release_middle` & `_long_release_middle` for purple laser

#### Supported button actions

##### `::ShellExec <command> [args ..]`

This button action executes a shell script using the `sh` shell.

- Long-running processes are allowed, but a new execution will not be triggered until the previous process has exited.
- If triggered again while the previous process is still running, SIGUSR1 will be sent to that child process.

```xml
<button _press="::ShellExec $HOME/myscript.sh test-argument" [...] />
```

###### Update the button's label from stdout

```xml
<button _press="::ShellExec $HOME/myscript.sh test-argument" _update_label="1" [...] />
```

- Write lines to the script's stdout to update the label text.
- The label will look for the last complete line to use as its text.
- Long-running scripts are allowed, but the label is only updated while the HMD is active.

##### `::OscSend <path> <args ..>`

Send an OSC message. The target port comes from the `osc_out_port` configuration setting.

```xml
<button _press="::OscSend /avatar/parameters/MyInt 1i32" [...] />
```

Available argument value types (case insensitive):
- Bool: `true` or `false`
- Nil: `nil`
- Inf: `inf`
- Int: `-1i32`, `1i32`, etc
- Long: `-1i64`, `1i64`, etc
- Float: `1f32`, `1.0f32`, etc
- Double: `1f64`, `1.0f64`, etc

##### `::ShutDown`

Gracefully shuts down WlxOverlay-S. Useful when using an auto-restart script.

##### `::SendKey <VirtualKey> <UP|DOWN>`

Sends a key using the virtual keyboard. If WayVR is focused, the key is sent to the WayVR app.

Supported VirtualKey values are listed [here](https://github.com/galister/wlx-overlay-s/blob/f2bd169c2217d51cd2de862a6429444bf326f471/wlx-overlay-s/src/subsystem/hid/mod.rs#L336).

##### `::PlayspaceReset`

Resets the STAGE space to (0,0,0) with identity rotation.

##### `::PlayspaceRecenter`

Recenters the STAGE space position so that the HMD is in the center. Does not modify floor level.

##### `::PlayspaceFixFloor`

Adjusts the level of floor for STAGE and LOCAL_FLOOR spaces.

The user is asked to place one controller on the floor.

Commit message:

Readd uptime timer label (#336)
* Readd uptime timer label

* Fixed timer formatting

wlx-overlay-s/src/gui/README.md, after:

# Custom UI Elements

Elements on custom panels may be modified at runtime using `wayvrctl`.

For more, refer to: `wayvrctl panel-modify --help`

### Labels

#### Clock label

Clock labels are driven by the current time, adhering to the user's 12/24 hour setting as well as timezone settings.

Available display values are: `name` (timezone name), `time`, `date`, `dow`

See the Custom Timezones section for more info on timezones. Skip `_timezone` to use local time.

```xml
<label _source="clock" _display="time" _timezone="0" [...] />
```

#### Timer label

Instead of a clock, this label shows the amount of time since program start, (aka time in VR).

Use `_format` to arrange `%h` hours, `%m` minutes, and `%s` seconds.

```xml
<label _source="timer" _format="%h:%m:%s" [...] />
```

#### Battery label

This is a label type that's used internally to display battery states.

```xml
<label _source="battery" _device="0" [...] />
```

#### IPD

Displays IPD value in millimeters. Not parametrizable.

Format: `ipd`

```xml
<label _source="ipd" [...] />
```

### Buttons

Buttons consist of a label component and one or more actions to handle press and/or release events.

Note: As of WlxOverlay 25.10, we no longer support events based on laser color, as this was bad practice accessibility-wise.

Supported events:

```xml
<button _press="..." _release="..." />
```

Laser-color-specific variants are also available
- `_press_left` & `_release_left` for blue laser
- `_press_right` & `_release_right` for orange laser
- `_press_middle` & `_release_middle` for purple laser

Release after short/long press (length controlled by config `long_press_duration`)
- `_short_release` & `_long_release` for any laser
- `_short_release_left` & `_long_release_left` for blue laser
- `_short_release_right` & `_long_release_right` for orange laser
- `_short_release_middle` & `_long_release_middle` for purple laser

#### Supported button actions

##### `::ShellExec <command> [args ..]`

This button action executes a shell script using the `sh` shell.

- Long-running processes are allowed, but a new execution will not be triggered until the previous process has exited.
- If triggered again while the previous process is still running, SIGUSR1 will be sent to that child process.

```xml
<button _press="::ShellExec $HOME/myscript.sh test-argument" [...] />
```

###### Update the button's label from stdout

```xml
<button _press="::ShellExec $HOME/myscript.sh test-argument" _update_label="1" [...] />
```

- Write lines to the script's stdout to update the label text.
- The label will look for the last complete line to use as its text.
- Long-running scripts are allowed, but the label is only updated while the HMD is active.

##### `::OscSend <path> <args ..>`

Send an OSC message. The target port comes from the `osc_out_port` configuration setting.

```xml
<button _press="::OscSend /avatar/parameters/MyInt 1i32" [...] />
```

Available argument value types (case insensitive):
- Bool: `true` or `false`
- Nil: `nil`
- Inf: `inf`
- Int: `-1i32`, `1i32`, etc
- Long: `-1i64`, `1i64`, etc
- Float: `1f32`, `1.0f32`, etc
- Double: `1f64`, `1.0f64`, etc

##### `::ShutDown`

Gracefully shuts down WlxOverlay-S. Useful when using an auto-restart script.

##### `::SendKey <VirtualKey> <UP|DOWN>`

Sends a key using the virtual keyboard. If WayVR is focused, the key is sent to the WayVR app.

Supported VirtualKey values are listed [here](https://github.com/galister/wlx-overlay-s/blob/f2bd169c2217d51cd2de862a6429444bf326f471/wlx-overlay-s/src/subsystem/hid/mod.rs#L336).

##### `::PlayspaceReset`

Resets the STAGE space to (0,0,0) with identity rotation.

##### `::PlayspaceRecenter`

Recenters the STAGE space position so that the HMD is in the center. Does not modify floor level.

##### `::PlayspaceFixFloor`

Adjusts the level of floor for STAGE and LOCAL_FLOOR spaces.

The user is asked to place one controller on the floor.
